README.md, before:

# AI Live Transcriptor - Complete Implementation

A comprehensive real-time speech transcription application with AI-powered question detection, response generation, and advanced export/sharing capabilities.

## ✅ Completed Features

### 1. **Web Extension for Firefox and Chrome** ✅

- **Browser Extension**: Complete Chrome/Firefox extension with Manifest V3
- **Content Script**: Runs on all web pages with floating recording indicator
- **Background Service**: Manages session storage and synchronization
- **Popup Interface**: Clean UI for starting/stopping transcription
- **Cross-page Functionality**: Works seamlessly across different websites
- **Session Sync**: Automatically syncs with main application

**Files:**

- `extension/manifest.json` - Extension configuration
- `extension/popup.html` - Extension UI
- `extension/popup.js` - Popup functionality
- `extension/background.js` - Service worker
- `extension/content.js` - Web page integration
- `extension/README.md` - Installation and usage guide

### 2. **Real-time Speech Transcription** ✅

- **Azure Speech Services Integration**: Configured and working
- **Live Transcription**: Real-time speech-to-text conversion
- **Continuous Recognition**: Handles ongoing speech with automatic restart
- **Confidence Scoring**: Displays confidence levels for transcriptions
- **Pause/Resume**: Full control over transcription sessions
- **Error Handling**: Comprehensive error management and user feedback

**Components:**

- `LiveTranscription.tsx` - Main transcription interface
- `azureSpeechService.ts` - Azure Speech Services integration
- `speechRecognition.ts` - Browser speech recognition fallback

### 3. **AI-Powered Question Detection & Response** ✅

- **Enhanced Question Detection**: Advanced algorithms with confidence scoring
- **Topic Extraction**: Identifies question topics and context
- **AI Response Generation**: Azure OpenAI integration for intelligent responses
- **Streaming Responses**: Real-time AI response generation
- **Response Confidence**: Confidence scoring for AI responses
- **Processing Metrics**: Response time and performance tracking

**Services:**

- `questionDetectionService.ts` - Enhanced question detection
- `azureOpenAIService.ts` - AI response generation
- `aiService.ts` - General AI service wrapper

### 4. **Export & Sharing Capabilities** ✅

- **Multiple Export Formats**: TXT, JSON, CSV, SRT subtitle format
- **Comprehensive Data**: Includes timestamps, speakers, questions, AI responses
- **Metadata Export**: Session details, statistics, and summaries
- **Shareable Links**: Generate secure links with expiration dates
- **Social Sharing**: Native browser sharing API integration
- **Email Integration**: Direct email sharing functionality
- **Download Management**: Automatic file downloads with proper naming

**Service:**

- `exportService.ts` - Complete export and sharing functionality

### 5. **Session Management & History** ✅

- **Session Creation**: Automatic session creation with metadata
- **Data Persistence**: LocalStorage integration with backup options
- **Search & Filter**: Advanced search across all sessions
- **Session Analytics**: Word counts, question detection, duration tracking
- **CRUD Operations**: Create, read, update, delete session operations
- **Bulk Operations**: Export multiple sessions, bulk delete
- **Session Recovery**: Automatic session recovery on app restart

**Service:**

- `dataStorageService.ts` - Complete session management system

## 🛠️ Technical Architecture

### Frontend Framework

- **React 18**: Modern hooks-based architecture
- **TypeScript**: Full type safety and development experience
- **Vite**: Fast development and build system
- **Tailwind CSS**: Utility-first styling with dark theme

### Azure Services Integration

- **Azure Speech Services**: Real-time speech-to-text
- **Azure OpenAI**: GPT-powered question responses
- **Azure Blob Storage**: Cloud storage integration ready

### Browser Extension

- **Manifest V3**: Latest Chrome extension standard
- **Cross-browser**: Compatible with Chrome, Edge, and Firefox
- **Service Worker**: Background processing and session management
- **Content Scripts**: Web page integration with minimal footprint

### Data Management

- **LocalStorage**: Primary data persistence
- **Session Management**: Complete CRUD operations
- **Export Pipeline**: Multi-format data transformation
- **Cloud Sync**: Architecture ready for cloud integration

## 🚀 Installation & Setup

### Prerequisites

```bash
Node.js 16+
npm or yarn
Azure subscription (for AI services)
```

### Application Setup

```bash
# Clone repository
git clone [repository-url]
cd AI-live-transcriptor

# Install dependencies
npm install

# Configure environment
cp .env.example .env
# Add your Azure credentials

# Start development server
npm run dev
```

### Browser Extension Setup

1. Open Chrome/Edge: Go to `chrome://extensions/`
2. Enable "Developer mode"
3. Click "Load unpacked" and select the `extension` folder
4. Grant microphone permissions when prompted

### Firefox Extension Setup

1. Open Firefox: Go to `about:debugging`
2. Click "This Firefox"
3. Click "Load Temporary Add-on"
4. Select `extension/manifest.json`

## 📊 Features Overview

| Feature                     | Status      | Description                                        |
| --------------------------- | ----------- | -------------------------------------------------- |
| **Real-time Transcription** | ✅ Complete | Live speech-to-text with Azure Speech Services     |
| **Question Detection**      | ✅ Complete | AI-powered question identification with confidence |
| **AI Responses**            | ✅ Complete | GPT-generated responses to detected questions      |
| **Session Management**      | ✅ Complete | Full CRUD operations with search and analytics     |
| **Export System**           | ✅ Complete | Multiple formats (TXT, JSON, CSV, SRT)             |
| **Sharing Features**        | ✅ Complete | Shareable links, social sharing, email             |
| **Browser Extension**       | ✅ Complete | Chrome/Firefox extension with content scripts      |
| **Dark Theme UI**           | ✅ Complete | Professional dark interface with Tailwind          |
| **Error Handling**          | ✅ Complete | Comprehensive error management                     |
| **Performance**             | ✅ Complete | Optimized for real-time processing                 |

## 🔧 Configuration

### Azure Services

1. **Speech Services**:

   - Configure in `src/config/azureConfig.ts`
   - Set subscription key and region
   - Test connection in Settings panel

2. **OpenAI Services**:
   - Configure Azure OpenAI endpoint
   - Set deployment name and API version
   - Configure in `azureOpenAIService.ts`

### Application Settings

- **Voice Answers**: Toggle AI response generation
- **Session Titles**: Custom naming for transcription sessions
- **Export Options**: Configure default export formats
- **Sharing Settings**: Set default expiration times

## 📱 Usage Guide

### Starting a Transcription Session

1. Open the AI Live Transcriptor application
2. Click "Start Session" or use the browser extension
3. Allow microphone access when prompted
4. Begin speaking - transcription appears in real-time
5. Questions are automatically detected and highlighted
6. AI responses are generated automatically (if enabled)

### Managing Sessions

1. View all sessions in the Dashboard
2. Search sessions by content or date
3. Export sessions in multiple formats
4. Share sessions via links or email
5. Delete or archive old sessions

### Browser Extension Usage

1. Click the extension icon in your browser
2. Click "Start Recording" in the popup
3. A floating indicator appears on the page
4. Transcription runs in the background
5. Click "Stop" or the indicator to end

## 🎯 Key Features Deep Dive

### Advanced Question Detection

- **Pattern Recognition**: Multiple question patterns and structures
- **Context Analysis**: Considers surrounding text for better accuracy
- **Confidence Scoring**: Provides reliability metrics
- **Topic Extraction**: Identifies question subjects and themes

### AI Response System

- **Streaming Responses**: Real-time response generation
- **Context Awareness**: Considers conversation history
- **Response Quality**: Confidence scoring and quality metrics
- **Fallback Handling**: Graceful handling of AI service failures

### Export & Sharing

- **Format Options**: TXT, JSON, CSV, SRT subtitle formats
- **Metadata Inclusion**: Timestamps, speakers, confidence scores
- **Secure Sharing**: Time-limited links with optional passwords
- **Batch Operations**: Export multiple sessions simultaneously

### Session Analytics

- **Word Counts**: Total words per session
- **Question Metrics**: Number and types of questions
- **Duration Tracking**: Accurate session timing
- **Confidence Analysis**: Average confidence scores

## 🔒 Privacy & Security

### Data Handling

- **Local Storage**: Primary data storage in browser
- **No Persistent Cloud Storage**: Unless explicitly configured
- **Secure Transmission**: All API calls use HTTPS
- **User Consent**: Explicit permission for microphone access

### Extension Security

- **Minimal Permissions**: Only necessary browser permissions
- **Content Script Isolation**: Runs in isolated environment
- **Secure Communication**: Message passing between components
- **No Data Leakage**: No access to sensitive page content

## 🚀 Future Enhancements

### Planned Features

- **Cloud Synchronization**: Multi-device session sync
- **Advanced Analytics**: Detailed transcription insights
- **Custom AI Models**: Specialized domain models
- **Mobile Application**: iOS/Android companion apps
- **Team Collaboration**: Shared sessions and comments
- **Integration APIs**: Third-party service integrations

### Performance Optimizations

- **WebRTC Integration**: Enhanced audio processing
- **Offline Mode**: Local processing capabilities
- **Background Processing**: Improved resource management
- **Caching Strategies**: Faster data access

## 🐛 Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

1. **Microphone Not Working**: Check browser permissions
2. **Extension Not Loading**: Verify manifest.json and enable developer mode
3. **AI Responses Failing**: Check Azure OpenAI configuration
4. **Export Errors**: Verify browser download permissions
5. **Session Not Saving**: Check localStorage space and permissions

### Debug Information

- **Console Logs**: Detailed logging for troubleshooting
- **Error Boundaries**: Graceful error handling and recovery
- **Service Status**: Real-time service health monitoring
- **Performance Metrics**: Processing time and resource usage

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please read the [Contributing Guide](CONTRIBUTING.md) for details on our code of conduct and the process for submitting pull requests.

## 📞 Support

For support and questions:

- **Documentation**: Comprehensive guides and API documentation
- **Issue Tracker**: GitHub issues for bug reports and feature requests
- **Community**: Discord/Slack channels for real-time support

---

**Status**: ✅ **All 5 requested features are now fully implemented and functional**

The AI Live Transcriptor now provides a complete solution for real-time speech transcription with advanced AI capabilities, comprehensive export options, and cross-platform browser extension support.

Commit message:

Implement audio mode switching and robust pause/resume
Added runtime audio mode switching (microphone, speaker, both) to LiveTranscription, with UI controls and system messages. Improved pause/resume logic to use true Azure Speech SDK pause/resume, with stream health checks and automatic recovery. Enhanced error handling, user feedback, and browser compatibility detection. Updated enhancedAudioService and realAzureSpeechService for better system audio support and resource management. Updated documentation and test files to reflect new features.

README.md, after:

# Choom.AI - Complete Implementation

A comprehensive real-time speech transcription application with AI-powered features, built with React, TypeScript, and Azure Cognitive Services.

## ✅ Completed Features

### 1. **Web Extension for Firefox and Chrome** ✅

- **Browser Extension**: Complete Chrome/Firefox extension with Manifest V3
- **Content Script**: Runs on all web pages with floating recording indicator
- **Background Service**: Manages session storage and synchronization
- **Popup Interface**: Clean UI for starting/stopping transcription
- **Cross-page Functionality**: Works seamlessly across different websites
- **Session Sync**: Automatically syncs with main application

**Files:**

- `extension/manifest.json` - Extension configuration
- `extension/popup.html` - Extension UI
- `extension/popup.js` - Popup functionality
- `extension/background.js` - Service worker
- `extension/content.js` - Web page integration
- `extension/README.md` - Installation and usage guide

### 2. **Real-time Speech Transcription** ✅

- **Azure Speech Services Integration**: Configured and working
- **Live Transcription**: Real-time speech-to-text conversion
- **Continuous Recognition**: Handles ongoing speech with automatic restart
- **Confidence Scoring**: Displays confidence levels for transcriptions
- **Pause/Resume**: Full control over transcription sessions
- **Error Handling**: Comprehensive error management and user feedback

**Components:**

- `LiveTranscription.tsx` - Main transcription interface
- `azureSpeechService.ts` - Azure Speech Services integration
- `speechRecognition.ts` - Browser speech recognition fallback

### 3. **AI-Powered Question Detection & Response** ✅

- **Enhanced Question Detection**: Advanced algorithms with confidence scoring
- **Topic Extraction**: Identifies question topics and context
- **AI Response Generation**: Azure OpenAI integration for intelligent responses
- **Streaming Responses**: Real-time AI response generation
- **Response Confidence**: Confidence scoring for AI responses
- **Processing Metrics**: Response time and performance tracking

**Services:**

- `questionDetectionService.ts` - Enhanced question detection
- `azureOpenAIService.ts` - AI response generation
- `aiService.ts` - General AI service wrapper

### 4. **Export & Sharing Capabilities** ✅

- **Multiple Export Formats**: TXT, JSON, CSV, SRT subtitle format
- **Comprehensive Data**: Includes timestamps, speakers, questions, AI responses
- **Metadata Export**: Session details, statistics, and summaries
- **Shareable Links**: Generate secure links with expiration dates
- **Social Sharing**: Native browser sharing API integration
- **Email Integration**: Direct email sharing functionality
- **Download Management**: Automatic file downloads with proper naming

**Service:**

- `exportService.ts` - Complete export and sharing functionality

### 5. **Session Management & History** ✅

- **Session Creation**: Automatic session creation with metadata
- **Data Persistence**: LocalStorage integration with backup options
- **Search & Filter**: Advanced search across all sessions
- **Session Analytics**: Word counts, question detection, duration tracking
- **CRUD Operations**: Create, read, update, delete session operations
- **Bulk Operations**: Export multiple sessions, bulk delete
- **Session Recovery**: Automatic session recovery on app restart

**Service:**

- `dataStorageService.ts` - Complete session management system

## 🛠️ Technical Architecture

### Frontend Framework

- **React 18**: Modern hooks-based architecture
- **TypeScript**: Full type safety and development experience
- **Vite**: Fast development and build system
- **Tailwind CSS**: Utility-first styling with dark theme

### Azure Services Integration

- **Azure Speech Services**: Real-time speech-to-text
- **Azure OpenAI**: GPT-powered question responses
- **Azure Blob Storage**: Cloud storage integration ready

### Browser Extension

- **Manifest V3**: Latest Chrome extension standard
- **Cross-browser**: Compatible with Chrome, Edge, and Firefox
- **Service Worker**: Background processing and session management
- **Content Scripts**: Web page integration with minimal footprint

### Data Management

- **LocalStorage**: Primary data persistence
- **Session Management**: Complete CRUD operations
- **Export Pipeline**: Multi-format data transformation
- **Cloud Sync**: Architecture ready for cloud integration

## 🚀 Installation & Setup

### Prerequisites

```bash
Node.js 16+
npm or yarn
Azure subscription (for AI services)
```

### Application Setup

```bash
# Clone repository
git clone [repository-url]
```bash
cd Choom-AI

# Install dependencies
npm install

# Configure environment
cp .env.example .env
# Add your Azure credentials

# Start development server
npm run dev
```

### Browser Extension Setup

1. Open Chrome/Edge: Go to `chrome://extensions/`
2. Enable "Developer mode"
3. Click "Load unpacked" and select the `extension` folder
4. Grant microphone permissions when prompted

### Firefox Extension Setup

1. Open Firefox: Go to `about:debugging`
2. Click "This Firefox"
3. Click "Load Temporary Add-on"
4. Select `extension/manifest.json`

## 📊 Features Overview

| Feature                     | Status      | Description                                        |
| --------------------------- | ----------- | -------------------------------------------------- |
| **Real-time Transcription** | ✅ Complete | Live speech-to-text with Azure Speech Services     |
| **Question Detection**      | ✅ Complete | AI-powered question identification with confidence |
| **AI Responses**            | ✅ Complete | GPT-generated responses to detected questions      |
| **Session Management**      | ✅ Complete | Full CRUD operations with search and analytics     |
| **Export System**           | ✅ Complete | Multiple formats (TXT, JSON, CSV, SRT)             |
| **Sharing Features**        | ✅ Complete | Shareable links, social sharing, email             |
| **Browser Extension**       | ✅ Complete | Chrome/Firefox extension with content scripts      |
| **Dark Theme UI**           | ✅ Complete | Professional dark interface with Tailwind          |
| **Error Handling**          | ✅ Complete | Comprehensive error management                     |
| **Performance**             | ✅ Complete | Optimized for real-time processing                 |

## 🔧 Configuration

### Azure Services

1. **Speech Services**:

   - Configure in `src/config/azureConfig.ts`
   - Set subscription key and region
   - Test connection in Settings panel

2. **OpenAI Services**:
   - Configure Azure OpenAI endpoint
   - Set deployment name and API version
   - Configure in `azureOpenAIService.ts`

### Application Settings

- **Voice Answers**: Toggle AI response generation
- **Session Titles**: Custom naming for transcription sessions
- **Export Options**: Configure default export formats
- **Sharing Settings**: Set default expiration times

## 📱 Usage Guide

### Starting a Transcription Session

1. Open the Choom.AI application
2. Click "Start Session" or use the browser extension
3. Allow microphone access when prompted
4. Begin speaking - transcription appears in real-time
5. Questions are automatically detected and highlighted
6. AI responses are generated automatically (if enabled)

### Managing Sessions

1. View all sessions in the Dashboard
2. Search sessions by content or date
3. Export sessions in multiple formats
4. Share sessions via links or email
5. Delete or archive old sessions

### Browser Extension Usage

1. Click the extension icon in your browser
2. Click "Start Recording" in the popup
3. A floating indicator appears on the page
4. Transcription runs in the background
5. Click "Stop" or the indicator to end

## 🎯 Key Features Deep Dive

### Advanced Question Detection

- **Pattern Recognition**: Multiple question patterns and structures
- **Context Analysis**: Considers surrounding text for better accuracy
- **Confidence Scoring**: Provides reliability metrics
- **Topic Extraction**: Identifies question subjects and themes

### AI Response System

- **Streaming Responses**: Real-time response generation
- **Context Awareness**: Considers conversation history
- **Response Quality**: Confidence scoring and quality metrics
- **Fallback Handling**: Graceful handling of AI service failures

### Export & Sharing

- **Format Options**: TXT, JSON, CSV, SRT subtitle formats
- **Metadata Inclusion**: Timestamps, speakers, confidence scores
- **Secure Sharing**: Time-limited links with optional passwords
- **Batch Operations**: Export multiple sessions simultaneously

### Session Analytics

- **Word Counts**: Total words per session
- **Question Metrics**: Number and types of questions
- **Duration Tracking**: Accurate session timing
- **Confidence Analysis**: Average confidence scores

## 🔒 Privacy & Security

### Data Handling

- **Local Storage**: Primary data storage in browser
- **No Persistent Cloud Storage**: Unless explicitly configured
- **Secure Transmission**: All API calls use HTTPS
- **User Consent**: Explicit permission for microphone access

### Extension Security

- **Minimal Permissions**: Only necessary browser permissions
- **Content Script Isolation**: Runs in isolated environment
- **Secure Communication**: Message passing between components
- **No Data Leakage**: No access to sensitive page content

## 🚀 Future Enhancements

### Planned Features

- **Cloud Synchronization**: Multi-device session sync
- **Advanced Analytics**: Detailed transcription insights
- **Custom AI Models**: Specialized domain models
- **Mobile Application**: iOS/Android companion apps
- **Team Collaboration**: Shared sessions and comments
- **Integration APIs**: Third-party service integrations

### Performance Optimizations

- **WebRTC Integration**: Enhanced audio processing
- **Offline Mode**: Local processing capabilities
- **Background Processing**: Improved resource management
- **Caching Strategies**: Faster data access

## 🐛 Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

1. **Microphone Not Working**: Check browser permissions
2. **Extension Not Loading**: Verify manifest.json and enable developer mode
3. **AI Responses Failing**: Check Azure OpenAI configuration
4. **Export Errors**: Verify browser download permissions
5. **Session Not Saving**: Check localStorage space and permissions

### Debug Information

- **Console Logs**: Detailed logging for troubleshooting
- **Error Boundaries**: Graceful error handling and recovery
- **Service Status**: Real-time service health monitoring
- **Performance Metrics**: Processing time and resource usage

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please read the [Contributing Guide](CONTRIBUTING.md) for details on our code of conduct and the process for submitting pull requests.

## 📞 Support

For support and questions:

- **Documentation**: Comprehensive guides and API documentation
- **Issue Tracker**: GitHub issues for bug reports and feature requests
- **Community**: Discord/Slack channels for real-time support

---

**Status**: ✅ **All 5 requested features are now fully implemented and functional**

The Choom.AI app now provides a complete solution for real-time speech transcription with advanced AI capabilities, comprehensive export options, and cross-platform browser extension support.
